hi guys I'm zubin I man ACSM certified
health fitness specialist that's my
friend who need hi I'm Tony arm a system
sent by an time fitness specialist today
we are going to go through some shoulder
exercises with you the shoulder muscle
is a very prominent muscle this is very
much responsible for the width of your
upper body let's get you started with
some of the shoulder exercises hi guys
the exercise which I'm going to show you
right now is called the alternate seated
overhead dumbbell press this exercise
works your shoulders the front part of
the shoulders to some extend your middle
part of the shoulders also and your
triceps it's a multi joint exercise it
works your shoulder joint as well as
your elbow let's show you how this
exercise is done first of all you need
to be seated on the bench lift the
dumbbells up take it to a starting point
where your elbows are in line with the
shoulders this exercise can be done in
two ways let's show the first one where
you're starting at the elbows bent at 90
degrees you do one drip you go all the
way up and you come down with the other
hand that's feeding out on your way up
breathing in on your way down always
remember that your elbows don't lock out
your joints are soft at all points of
time now that's one way of doing it the
other way is you come down where your
elbows are bent here elbow in line with
the shoulder and you bring it the weight
down to the starting position again
forming an a over your head the dumbbell
finishes right above the head that's
very very important breathing is really
important always exhale while going
against gravity Wyles coming down elbow
comes in line with the shoulder not
lower than that that's it keep the
weights down very important to control
the way to control the speed in the
exercise if you are taking heavy weights
very very important that you bring the
weights very close to your body and then
keep it down to avoid any sort of pain
on the low back if your goal is to
increase muscle mass then go for a
weight which will give you around six to
ten reps but if you want to maintain
muscle mass then go for a lighter weight
which will give you
15 to 20 repetitions this is how you do
the alternate seated overhead dumbbell
press
you